---
title: Short GPG Key
summary: Short GPG Key: a story
authors:
    - Andrea Kao
date: 2020-02-03
some_url:
---

## Recurring GPG key problem

### How did the problem arise?

On or around October 8th, 2019, the team encountered problems installing Postgres and PostGIS dependencies (in the context of an NC stage release).

Eric initiated a conversation in #tech: to discuss which packages and dependencies were used for the recent ETLs. He had encountered some discrepancies in installation behavior (discrepancies between using the UbuntuGIS repo and the Postgres-managed repo).

Nik confirmed that he was referencing the following Postgres PPA config:
https://github.nchub.net/nridder/dockerfiles/blob/master/database/ubuntu-postgres/salt-states/ppa/init.sls#L4

Likewise, Eric shared his output from running `apt-cache policy postgresql-11-postgis-2.5`:
https://github.nchub.net/gist/erasmussen/352c66ba335521807b17f4b74f8c45e7

This raised the question: why was `apt-get` bundling GUI-related dependencies?

During their initial investigation, Eric and Sam presumed that the problem was a Salt quirk, because Salt was exhibiting different behavior when referencing the short form of the GPG key ID. This was possibly due to a change in the latest minor version update for Salt.

However, upon further investigation, they traced the origin of the problem to the PostGIS repo itself.

They identified three necessary action items:

* replace the Postgres package that's used in the ETLs
* update the `pkgrepo.managed` Salt states to:

  * use the long form of the key ID
  * note that short form of the key ID is no longer unique

* report this GPG key problem to the Ubuntu keyserver security group

In regards to the first action item: it would be appropriate for the dev team to identify a viable replacement for the Postgres package (i.e., the next time they work on ETLs). Ideally, we would use a version that doesn't include GUI libraries, FFmpeg, etc.

In regards to the second and third action items: the short form of the GPG key ID was compromised, and there was no evidence that the Ubuntu keyserver security group had taken measures to address this.

### What are our takeaways?

* Don't trust short key IDs (for anything PGP-related)
* Use the long form key ID or whole key text
* Ensure that none of our Salt highstates use the short key ID

### Why did we document this problem?

We have repeatedly encountered problems with Salt highstates that use GPG keys, and we are confident that this problem will arise again. Every occurrence of this problem has required troubleshooting resoures from multiple people (Eric, Sam, Nik, James).

Eric alone estimates having spent about 3 hours on this problem over the course of one or two months. Although the team is likely to recall how frequently this problem has arisen:

* it's possible that the next occurrence of this problem will involve a different set of team members; or
* the team will encounter different error messages related to the same problem; or
* all of the above

Likewise, even if we are fortunate enough to not encounter this problem for, say, another year, our collective memory of the troubleshooting will have faded. Hence, the team's need to reference a piece of documentation that describes this problem in detail.

### Links to further resources

#### Related fixes that Eric had made in August 2019
* https://github.nchub.net/cars-sm/salt-pillar-public/pull/435/files
* https://github.nchub.net/cars-sm/salt-fs/pull/1036/files

#### Links to relevant Slack conversations

* [#scarab](https://cars-sm.slack.com/archives/C0AEW2DAQ/p1566835479086900), 8/26/2019, 09:04
* [#release](https://cars-sm.slack.com/archives/C098VU25S/p1570544066125000), 10/8/2019, 07:14
* [#tech](https://cars-sm.slack.com/archives/C09EEAH0B/p1570566487120300), 10/8/2019, 13:28
* [#devops](https://cars-sm.slack.com/archives/C09488QH1/p1570573104406100), 10/8/2019, 15:18
* [#devops](https://cars-sm.slack.com/archives/C09488QH1/p1570733266089800), 10/8/2019, 11:47
* [#devops](https://cars-sm.slack.com/archives/C09488QH1/p1578606694049200), 1/9/2020, 13:51
